# Daktar

In present days we already know about many notorious diseases in the world, among them one of the most is diabetes. An increase in glucose level of blood and cause of this shortage of insulin in same is one of the major reasons for diabetes. Due to a large number of different criteria, it is difficult to predict this disease but it’s possible to predict and detect it at an early stage.
International Diabetes Federation ( IDF ) has published data regarding diabetes and which is pretty concerning. According to them in 2021, approximately 537 million adults are living with diabetes. 75% of adults who are suffering from diabetes are living in third-world countries. The number of people living with diabetes is likely to rise to 643 million by 2030 and 783 million by 2045. Due to environmental and genetic factors, diabetes is increasing on a regular basis. Taking unhealthy food and physical inactivity and there are many more factors which are reasons behind this. Mainly diabetes is a hormonal disorder when the body fails to generate insulin and it triggers the metabolism level of blood sugar in the body in an abnormal manner, thus, raising blood glucose levels in the body of a certain person. Frequent urination, intense hunger, and thirst are some major observed characteristics of this disease.  Age of the patient, Body Mass Index, Glucose Levels, Blood Pressure level, and some other certain risk factors are important to increase the chances to have this disease. 
We all know machine learning is a very important essential tool in this days in any field of computation. In this technique, we deal with  a large number of data and we may gain some predicted results from it. Generally, we may categorize machine learning in two ways i.e, 

Supervised Learning: In supervised learning, based on the labels attached to information we train the model, and based on that we can classify or test the new data with that labels.

Unsupervised Learning: In supervised learning, based on information labels we train the model and based on whether we can classify or test new data on those labels.

In the present scenario, it is also known to all that the machine learning technique is also appreciated and adopted in the field of medicine as it is effective to predict something just based on data and some other parameters. By studying the characteristics of an individual it is possible to determine some diseases at an early stage and this whole thing is possible by machine learning techniques, which is a revolution in the field of medicine. The project which we have developed and described in this report can predict diabetes using machine learning techniques for precaution.
